>> Zac Gordon: Welcome back you all,
you've have sometime to
work through the exercises.
What I am just gonna do now is
go through the completed codes.
So, I won't activate every theme and
show you all the steps, but
I will point out some important
things that are worth knowing about.
So let's start of in our 1.2 exercises.
And I am actually gonna be playing
around with the completed ones,
cuz it has all the code already done.
So if I come into my functions.php
in my completed 1.2,
what we're trying to work
on here is dependencies.
So we have two different versions of this,
or
I'm sorry,
two different files being in-queued.
We have a config file and
we have a theme file.
And the important thing that we wanted to
do was to make our theme file dependent
and load after our config file, and
the way we do that is by passing in
the parameter of the handle from
whatever it is that we wanted to use.
So in this case so it's jsp Config-js and
that's what we're plugging in here.
And then when we load the page we should
see one load and then the other after it.
So, that's our 1.2.
In our jQuery example there's
two things we have to look at.
One is in the functions.php.
Notice that,
we are not enqueuing jQuery anywhere here
all we're saying is make it a dependency.
And because jQuery is included with
WordPress Core, we don't have to do
any extra work, it's just gonna make sure
that jQuery is loaded on our page and
I'm pooling in jQuery masonry as well
here, shoutout to you Dave, buddy of mine.
Okay, and this URL is very important and
worth going and
checking out as well because
it is gonna show you all
of the libraries that come
bundled with WordPress.
So some of them are a little bit older.
A lot of them are like
the jQuery UI library and
then some are very Word Press
specific as you get further down.
But some things maybe like a lightbox or
different things could be helpful for you.
TinyMCE for example is used
in Word Press internally, and
then some internal Word Press stuff.
Coming down, we see Backbone
in Underscore are included,
which we talked about why some of
the features that built with that, and
you could also see
the stuff that's removed.
So we're way past the days of
scriptaculous and prototype,
although I remember them no
longer in WordPress core.
So all I did was pull in jQuery, you
may have played around with other ones,
there's really no right or wrong way.
And then the other thing that's important
to mention is our actually theme.jsfile.
And when we work with
jQuery in Word Press,
we cannot rely on the dollar sign
just being available to jQuery.
So what we're doing here is we're saying,
hey, when this Function is
being called here,
pass in jQuery to it and rename jQuery
as a dollar sign when you pass it in
to the inside of this function here.
So we don't need to use this,
we can actually remove all of this and
just type jQuery,
instead of the dollar sign.
And a lot of WordPress core or some of
the WordPress core code that you may see
uses this method just because
it's a little bit safer.
However, for convenience sake one of the
reasons you're using jQuery is probably
you want it to be easier
if you are using it.
So follow this method it's very important
otherwise you'll get some unexpected
results.
Yeah, question?
>> Speaker 2: So If you didn't include
that, is the dollar sign going to default
to a different library, elsewhere,
or is it assigned it all in elsewhere?
>> Zac Gordon: It's going to depend,
I mean, this has existed since you
still had people using prototype and
other ones that were very dollar-signy.
So nowadays we don't see as much of that,
so it would depend on what's loaded.
It may actually still work, but you may
potentially get some issues, I think.
>> Speaker 2: I just wanna make sure
that you're
saying which one you'll be on every time.
>> Zac Gordon: Yeah,
although I don't think, no, Word Press is,
I don't think it's actually
anywhere in it doing this for you.
But you could test it out just by
deleting this and checking it real quick.
I'd be curious what you find, yeah.
>> Zac Gordon: But it's definitely,
it's in all the docs and
everything saying that you really
want to work with them that way.
Okay, so the next one up is in
queuing external libraries.
So sometimes it's faster to load stuff
off a CDN instead of having it in your
own repository, specially if its something
that's being used commonly a lot.
So in this case we're pulling
in view right down off the repo.
And then we're including
it as a dependency,
the same as we did with jQuery.
The difference here is that WordPress is
going to try to attach this time code or
if we didn't have a time code, and
let's just say that we left it blank.
If we leave this blank WordPress is
automatically going to change it to
the version of WordPress at its end.
So there's no way to set
this to null which is
kind of annoying sometimes I wish
that this worked, but it doesn't.
So we're going to leave this as is and
then use some WordPress hooks to make sure
that nothing is added to end of this.
Because if we had ver=4.8 and
we try to load that in the browser,
it's going to give us an invalid URL and
that won't work.
So that is not an option for us.
So down here is some code where all
I had to do is change cdn to unpkg,
and that will make sure that,
this is stripped
anytime that a JavaScript file is loaded.
If it has this in the URL it will
not apply the version number.
Or it will remove the query
argument of versions.
So depending on how much
PHP you're familiar with.
The other thing I could show you here
is that if you ever start working with
multiple CDNs, you could just do an or,
and then this could be other.
And it'll get a little nasty if you have
too many of them, but completely valid,
it'll work.
>> Zac Gordon: So this block of code,
keep in mind, and copy and
paste it anywhere that you need to remove
that version number because it's breaking.
I also left some code down here
that you could uncomment and
what this will do is apply
the same thing to any CSS.
So sometimes CSS could be more forgiving,
it does depend on they're
serving stuff up.
But if again you're trying to link
to some external CSS thing and
it's adding a version number and
breaking it.
Then you can run it through
that filter as well.
But you'll notice that down here I'm
linking directly to a Google Font, and
it doesn't break it.
So that's pretty nice.
But Google fonts are used to
take other parameters, so
it's probably just ignoring those,
notice that it already
has like he stuff going on, the arguments.
>> Speaker 2: So
are both of those necessary?
You have to do the time stamps,
and then you also have to
remove the version of function?
>> Zac Gordon: No,
you don't have to do time here.
I'm just leaving it because it's not
actually possible to set it to null.
If we didn't do time, and we left at this,
it would set it to
the version of WordPress.
So I'm just leaving time but
maybe this would actually be
a little bit more clear and make sense.
>> Speaker 2: And
then, if you use that function,
that's gonna take care of the same thing?
>> Zac Gordon: It will actually solve it,
this won't take care of the problem.
>> Speaker 2: Okay,
at this point.
>> Zac Gordon: And
this won't take care of the problem,
you actually have to go in and
hardcore remove it itself.
Because it always wants to fall back so
that even if you don't know what version
your on it will be able to
catch it based on some data.
And again when you go to
push to production for
your own you wanted then
start tracking these.
So remove time and change it to 1.5,
1.6 as you roll out new versions.
And that will allow it
to be cached better,
cuz if you have this then it's going to
assume that it's new stuff every time.